

## Meeting information

### Meeting date:

November 14th 2022

### Meeting agenda:

1. HPC grant application
2. update on WPs and the progress of the work
3. status of website and logo
4. closing remarks

### Meeting transcript:

The following is the transcript of a meeting with multiple participants, where each line has a timestamp (e.g. 11:58:37 AM means 11h58mn37s am), the speaker's name and their utterance.


12:01:25 PM laurent besacier: Oh,

12:01:25 PM Barry Haddow: my.

12:01:28 PM Wilker Aziz: Hello.

12:01:39 PM Alexandra Birch: an action.

12:02:13 PM Wilker Aziz: The livestream. Live transcription happened.

12:02:34 PM Marcely: I'm trying to capture the transcriptions but it's not working for some reason, like the transcriptions are there I can read them, that the, the gadget it's not capturing them.

12:02:52 PM Vlad Niculae: Does it need you to be host or something, or are you already. Yeah, I was wondering because it's saying, either meeting host has not joined it yet, or the host has not enable live transcriptions oh yeah so so the host cannot enable live transcription Oh, yeah. because we don't have support for this I think.

12:03:10 PM Marcely: Yeah, but the blood prescriptions are there. Yeah. I asked them to be unable and somebody, I don't know if was Miriam.

12:03:22 PM laurent besacier: Somebody made them available. So what is your problem is is that you cannot capture it. We can see nothing it's not logged anywhere.

12:03:33 PM Marcely: Yeah, the gadget that Richard Stan is having trouble. Because it seems that the host is not here could, could I have the host for a minute just just say if that's the problem place.

12:03:52 PM Speaker: know how to do that. Can somebody do that. I think the current host Marion. Also the co host cannot do this okay. I just made us hostess. Yeah, it's now, your host. Okay, let me see.

12:04:46 PM Marcely: Okay, so it's actually working. But it says it's it's not capturing but then it's capturing. I don't know why it's so i think i can i can even give the host back into to keep working. Let me try.

12:05:27 PM Maryam Hashemi Shabestari: Excited working by changing the.

12:05:36 PM Speaker: Yeah, it's I'm checking the document and it's saving it life.

12:05:49 PM Wilker Aziz: Okay, sorry I wasn't there last Monday. I actually didn't have a chance to catch up with blood. And what happened is we just got back to work. But I did see that we have a few topics to discuss today. One of them being HPC grant application. I guess it's more of an opportunity to just mention what what is going on or who, who is who is Lexi input or work on the document I for once, probably do, they kind of have an open the document last week.

12:06:36 PM Alexandra Birch: And so I made progress on TV validation section and answer the question there. Yeah. I haven't made much more progress than that. It's still not clear to me. I mean, is this a forum for discussing that proposal.

12:07:08 PM Wilker Aziz: Yeah, I thought, maybe this is a forum for some for other things right but right now that one seems to be important. Give them a pressing the price expression deadline and will have an impact and research, right.

12:07:21 PM Alexandra Birch: If we don't have that is great yeah I mean, I don't have any clear answers I think I don't feel like I'm kind of. We don't have is great yeah I mean, I don't have any clear answers I think I don't feel like I'm kind of overall in charge, that's what I'm trying to say I mean, I've been pushing it forward but like the things that I don't really know like what are the, you know, in terms of okay the kind of, it's all boils down to what are this, what are the scaling graphs, Okay. What. we're going to produce. So we've got a multi, multi lingual scaling graph in there. And I think we have a training graph or distilled model. So we have those two scale and graphs at the moment.

12:08:08 PM Alexandra Birch: I feel like it would be nice to have a scaling graph a multimodal model or a speech recognition model. That's completely missing. To actually I wanted to talk to learn about that. Actually I wanted to talk to Lauren about that. And this is a great opportunity. And basically, we need to describe, if we if we have a scaling graphs, I mean most applications I imagined to have one scaling graph. If we. And one model that the train, you know that are attacking one problem of course, our project is really broad and there's lots of different parts to it, but if, if we were to try and nail it down to like, when we've definitely. So we have a translation model of iron model for translation we have a fantastic model for massively multilingual.

12:09:00 PM Alexandra Birch: It would be great to have a web to mobile. I think we're scaling information, and then if we have those three things. We could talk about their the code for these, you know, what are the, the libraries, what are the dependencies. And that fits into the story about, you know, the motivation for the project and stuff that we've got to.

12:09:19 PM Maryam Hashemi Shabestari (chat): just to be sure, do I need to take any action to save the scripts or are you taking care of saving them?

12:09:33 PM Alexandra Birch: I don't know. Does that seem like it's maybe maybe too ambitious to have three different code bases and scaling graphs in a maybe we should reduce it to two. I mean the two we have now like I can tell, with the two that we have got the mastery multilingual and we have the fish like the distilled model training.

12:09:54 PM Marcely (chat): I'm taking care of it. Thanks! :)

12:09:56 PM Alexandra Birch: So, with this we can tell the story about Martin multilingual, and we can tell the story about efficient models. And I could do, you know, perhaps the other motivation of the project is sort of adaptable and contextual and robust and explainable. Okay, those are kind of the research things that we're doing, that's beyond state of the art, we don't need to show that

12:10:13 PM laurent besacier (chat): for txt, BLOOM paper is now out:Â https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.05100(maybe interesting stuff in there for the proposal)

12:10:19 PM Alexandra Birch: That's be on stage. in scaling and code and those kinds of things. Yeah, so we could. But we yeah we do need to explain Marion we've got we've got details about Marion we've got details about what kid needs and what iOS got some stuff like that. But we do need, you know it's not just having a scaling graph we also need to have, how that fits into the project and then, like, What color did Jesus what dependencies, it has, is it actually going to run on on the, on the device that we're applying for applying for an order.

12:11:07 PM Barry Haddow: I don't remember the exact GPS, very Can you remember Nvidia a 100, and video and I guess what we want, we talked on Thursday what we are missing and this is why Lexi was trying to ask for arm but it was something, something for the speech my ballot modality. I mean it. Yeah, basically scaling for, if you have a scaling, you can get scaling numbers even for self supervised Pete speech training.

12:11:38 PM laurent besacier: Yeah, we're probably useful. So I think my city already shared something, I don't know, maybe it's not enough that we can try to, to see, to provide something I think muscly share the Google Docs, with some information about ways to there can you bet

12:11:55 PM Barry Haddow: training, but probably what we need it was that attached to the draft, I haven't looked at the maybe maybe twice keep because I think initially it was sent to Ken and I think I sent to canon Aleksandra.

12:12:09 PM laurent besacier: Maybe it's so good. I mean I think I looked at that and I wasn't quite sure what to do that, to be honest.

12:12:17 PM Alexandra Birch: I think we need to have a skit it needs to have scaling we need to scale and graph, which means means that it has to be run. We have to run some parts of the training on, you know, One GPU for GPS, a GPS.

12:12:37 PM laurent besacier: Yeah. We can try to refine what lesson you provided.

12:12:44 PM Barry Haddow: Using the template of what is already in the doc and see what we can do. But really, again we we just trained like less than 10 with to work more than four single language French.

12:12:59 PM laurent besacier: This kid is not that big. So,

12:13:05 PM Barry Haddow: I will be interesting. Yeah, proving that, you know, this could scale.

12:13:13 PM Alexandra Birch: passion is just proving that, you know, this could scale. I think I mean my, my interpretation is the cluster people want to ensure that we're not wasting their time. So it's like if they give us, you know, we've run something sad for GPUs.

12:13:22 PM Barry Haddow: We need to sort of prove that we've run it and 40, that it would be maybe 10 times as fast or eight times as fast or something like that.

12:13:32 PM Marcely: Is it reasonable to consider on the closer application to ask participants to show results on 16 or 32 GPUs. The reason you're asking for the resource right yeah I guess that's why I'm trying to get it. Can we show something that we can then we claim oh let's, let's extrapolate this is bound to get faster we should run a more GPUs

12:13:57 PM Alexandra Birch: defense there is this notion of like, what was it called like trial time that apparently people could have used, get a login to do to prove that it scales.

12:14:09 PM Barry Haddow: Yeah. Is it is an application to get get access to produce these graphs. On the actual nodes themselves. Yeah.

12:14:18 PM Alexandra Birch: Yeah, many nodes, and have been down, so this is the other. I don't know if Lonard has been banned. Yeah, we don't even know the cluster is working to do this. So, I don't think they're not as done, I think, is up and running. And, and we could do you think.

12:14:36 PM Barry Haddow: Yeah, I mean, nothing will get those numbers in two weeks they are we should have got access to learn other than the scaling graph, only in order, and then produce this in the proposal to get access to all 5 million hours.

12:14:53 PM Alexandra Birch: But because this is the first time the call is art. first time the call is art. I don't think they're going to be strictly. You know, requiring this, but this call. And there's a problem, there has been problems with the looming tester that actually couldn't have used it for scaling. Yeah, so not sure about it another that I think we should go ahead. So, even though we haven't asked us for access and produced the scaling graphs on Leonardo, like we should have. Thank you.

12:15:25 PM laurent besacier: And so, so for instance for the with two models we trend at the moment we shared. Okay. So mothers were trained on one 2000 3000 7000 hours, and you read the amount of V 100 notes that we use for that, from four to 64. For.

12:15:47 PM Alexandra Birch: And we also the data, data storage that is needed to try and search for them so what else, which would be needed because. Could you put it into the proposal or put it in the proposal is definitely possible Yeah, just try to Okay.

12:16:03 PM laurent besacier: Okay. I'm not I mean I'm no expert in writing these proposals I'm just trying to make sure that we get it in. Ok, ok, I think I get people to contribute it to the person in charge of this document is just that. Yeah, we can put it, do not expect like a detailed learning curve, because we don't have so many data points.

12:16:33 PM Alexandra Birch: I think we just did and what we have I mean it really, the real app reality is we've two weeks we don't have time to run lots of experiments, we just try and put something that convinces people that we're not going to be wasting the cluster.

12:16:37 PM Barry Haddow: We just. And I think it's I mean, the stuff that we do it does scale with the more GPUs. You know because of data parallelism, but we just need some graphs that show that. And.

12:17:10 PM Wilker Aziz: so this is something new, you could put a first version in there then.

12:17:14 PM laurent besacier: Then we'll take it from there as well as into this. Yes.

12:17:19 PM Wilker Aziz: I on mastery we do a ton of chanting cancer moment. Yeah, so next week during the when I was up that we got the extension.

12:17:37 PM Marcely: Critical can remind me of the deadline, please. I'm sorry, I forgot. It's changed it was the it was 30 Fs let me just check Sorry, I've got so many notes for this, the 28th or the 30th 30th yeah have it open, let me just refresh it if it changed again.

12:17:54 PM JosÃ© Souza: So there's a 24 to 30.

12:17:59 PM Wilker Aziz: Oh no, it's still the 30th at 1pm though, Luxembourg time.

12:18:03 PM Barry Haddow: At one. So. So.

12:18:21 PM Wilker Aziz: and but this time I don't think we had agreed on a formula on how on how to use this slot. So he had something, some items that I think they are Moreover, management, kind of address their Marina management spirit. There is an item on the status of website and logo Perhaps this was already discussed last week and I haven't caught up with the client.

12:18:46 PM Vlad Niculae: I think we discuss it a little bit less trick there is news we just got an email from Susan this morning. So Susan is suggesting to actually, because, building a website is not. I think I'm action item, or I forget, let me see exactly how to phrase it.

12:19:06 PM Maria Ana Henriques: I think it doesn't really have any impact he's just a different way of of labeling the cost so I know it hasn't it has an impact because we we have to.

12:19:16 PM Vlad Niculae: It's a different procedure for or it doesn't really, which which sort of suggestion, it doesn't need any amendments for any changes, so I'm not even an email for approval. But we have to check the eligibility conditions of the cost in the new agey, there is a link and Hardy Miller. So basically, she's saying only action tasks to be performed can be subcontracted that is tasks that directly contribute to achieving the names of the project. The subcontracting doesn't include the purchase of a service for instance, a contract for the creation of a website that enables the actions beneficiaries to work to gather. That is assuming that website is a project management tool and not a separate subcontracted action task.

12:20:01 PM Barry Haddow: Can you can you translate those into something we can understand.

12:20:06 PM Vlad Niculae: If we treats this website building company, as somebody providing us with a tool to achieve our goals, then it is a purchase of a product, and not a subcontracting cost, which means it can be moved around without approval from Susan, simply an expense Simply. for unbearable.

12:20:25 PM Barry Haddow: Yeah, right. It would be, it could be kind of like, if we, if we had to buy.

12:20:32 PM Vlad Niculae: Let's say. Let's say get lab.

12:20:35 PM Barry Haddow: Uh huh. Okay, so yeah okay so if we were buying translations or annotation, that would also apparently yeah we can just rearrange costs internally within. So yeah, okay.

12:20:46 PM Vlad Niculae: Apparently, we can just rearrange costs internally within. So, so, further Susan says if the costs in question belong to the purchase costs category number amendment is needed as beneficiaries can transfer budget between participants and budget categories as long as it doesn't imply substantive or important to

12:21:05 PM Vlad Niculae: change to the description of the action.

12:21:09 PM Barry Haddow: Okay.

12:21:14 PM Vlad Niculae: But we have to double check the eligibility conditions for the above costs, and indeed see whether we can make a point that this is buying the tool, and not subcontracting the service For instance. instance if it's designing the logo that doesn't feel like a tool. But I also don't think that this company was about to design a logo they just they just plug in a CMS for us I think that's what they do and they handled the web hosting I guess.

12:21:44 PM Maria Ana Henriques: So I think Susan is the rights, but we wish to double check the eligibility double checking Is it like looking at the grant agreement and trying to so so sorry Susan sent a link there it says you can verify the eligibility conditions for the above costs Double check.

12:22:00 PM Vlad Niculae: in the new agey pages seven to eight. So this is a new document that seems like

12:22:09 PM Wilker Aziz (chat):Â https://eur04.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fec.europa.eu%2Finfo%2Ffunding-tenders%2Fopportunities%2Fdocs%2F2021-2027%2Fcommon%2Fguidance%2Faga_en.pdf&data=05%7C01%7CW.FerreiraAziz%40uva.nl%7C85771bf9b5f34eb0023808dac62dbf7e%7Ca0f1cacd618c4403b94576fb3d6874e5%7C0%7C0%7C638040197053043421%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=ncNKrVA2eL53A10Prj16SGHCXdzd9xMfP1U05DoRhAA%3D&reserved=0

12:22:10 PM Vlad Niculae: it was updated november.

12:22:12 PM Maria Ana Henriques: it was updated. Okay, November 30 and 20 is not that new. It's the current one that I think we already I think I've been looking at it now. So it should be okay. Yeah. Yeah, I think I'll take a look but I think it will be okay.

12:22:29 PM Vlad Niculae: If there is a table it seems like a pretty clear. There's some examples there. I hope it's I don't know if that's the right person to translate and it's

12:22:48 PM Wilker Aziz: all right it's there remains any ambiguity in the past I have asked our project controller for help with the couch categorizing expenses, so we can also write to her and asked her input. Got to. If it remains in the desert might be able to have

12:23:13 PM Vlad Niculae: other small points to discuss here was so we had a bit of an email exchange about this. What happens after the end of the project. The web design company is charging what seems like a particularly close amount, what was it 500 euro or something, a year to just keep the Project Online. Right, which suggests we have not checked in on this money I did, I'm not sure. Which.

12:23:41 PM Maria Ana Henriques: I did a little search but I don't think we need to keep the website running. If we don't want to. Yeah.

12:23:49 PM Vlad Niculae: I think I think the right to the right thing to do is not not to not to not to keep it running in this case, if we are not required to yeah the frustrating part is that of course it's an HTML page that will be frozen when we're done working on the project Yeah, the first thing. so we could just save it and then host it for free somewhere, but there is a quite large chance that if this company is charging us 500 euro to keep it running that they would have some POS that prevent us from just downloading the, the output. If they don't, good, we can host it for free on some University server for as much as possible but since we're not required to I would, I would say we.

12:24:31 PM Barry Haddow: I would say don't see a point in keeping the website running, and then I could. I'm so confused about the point of these websites for European. Yeah.

12:24:43 PM Vlad Niculae: Like it seems like the worst way to do it. You know I could buy a domain for a few years. I think we can keep it running for free for about six months after the the end of the project to make sure that we can close the project.

12:24:53 PM Maria Ana Henriques: co. But after that yet.

12:24:58 PM Vlad Niculae: Actually, that's a good point because we will have a final review, which is some months after, and he probably should see to the site existence. Although they have, if we make sure that it's on the web archive.org then maybe thats

12:25:15 PM Maryam Hashemi Shabestari: related to this we can also consider an extension, within the contract. I mean, from the beginning that we will want it for three years plus, so many monsters, and you know static here for my pty. The project is running, not after that. So that could be part of the contract that we can arrange, and then we know for sure that we have it for a couple of months, extra, in case we needed or for especially for the monitors check because they may want to us. us to bring it up and show them how it's working so that would be a safe thing to do.

12:25:51 PM Maria Ana Henriques: I'm not sure if I understood so you suggested that we could have in the contract saying exactly what I didn't and.

12:26:00 PM Maryam Hashemi Shabestari: I mean, for example, if we want to have the website for three years to cover the lifetime of otter we can say we want also an additional year like static for to pay for 500, euros for one year. Or maybe less depends on the needs of the project. And then do it in the beginning, like not after the project is ended to pay extra, so that we can cover it in within the budget that we have for otter. So.

12:26:33 PM Maria Ana Henriques: Ok. Ok, I see.

12:26:35 PM Maryam Hashemi Shabestari: So like, we can have it for four years, but from the drive now, not after the project is finished to extend it, and bubble is going to be it's the same thing because I mean we. But.

12:26:49 PM Maria Ana Henriques: It doesn't make a difference if we paid with the project budget or, or not, I guess.

12:26:56 PM Maryam Hashemi Shabestari: So, just to tell you that we don't need to decide right now so we have that flexibility we can decide later on if that's easy if you prefer to put it in the contract and if we decide right now that we wanted to one from another year, then we can also

12:27:10 PM Maria Ana Henriques: Then we.

12:27:11 PM Maryam Hashemi Shabestari: it under contract Yes, but we only the only thing is that if otter lifetime finishes we cannot claim any money on that so that's important. If you're not worried about the content, it's fine but if you want to make sure that it will be paid from otter

12:27:30 PM Maryam Hashemi Shabestari: then we need to do it before the project finishes. Okay. No.

12:27:37 PM Maria Ana Henriques: No.

12:27:44 PM Wilker Aziz: So.

12:27:44 PM Vlad Niculae: Think. Yeah. Go on, like, I was just gonna say, I think that's all we wanted to check on the website. I was just gonna say, I think.

12:27:54 PM Wilker Aziz: All right, then an item that I actually skipped over was the second one in the agenda was to go around and give everyone the word package chance to comment on progress or hiring whatever's going on. And perhaps I'll just reformulate this a bit and suggest that we kind of discuss what to how to use the slot. Can moving, moving forward. When I get might be two to rotate and have every, every every time we need to be dedicated to one or two of the word package so that people kind of can prepare what they want to talk about.

12:28:38 PM Wilker Aziz: Not to be overly prepared as expected, but to have, you know, presentations and results and stuff but, so that they are not surprised and can bring up the points they find most relevant most useful to discuss together. And I think we did like that environment. I don't think we shared slots, I think it was usually someone who was in charge of that one slot for the next time let's say, I don't think we were rotating for work packages in. That's an idea, or if you have other ideas. Or if you.

12:29:13 PM Barry Haddow: Think. Me. I think if we rotate across partners, so it's like we're partners and package partner was in charge of, you know, one of the research meetings and generally we presented work in progress.

12:29:29 PM Wilker Aziz: Yeah, it's binary so the more things the package because the partners contributes and or many package.

12:29:44 PM Barry Haddow: My losses have encouraged me that we were. I don't I don't recall if we ever did this, but we could also present. You know what my side, that we thought was interesting, I think.

12:29:55 PM Wilker Aziz: I think time.

12:29:58 PM Barry Haddow: Yeah.

12:29:59 PM Wilker Aziz: But I guess if you say if we say we rotate partners. It's entirely up to the partner what's going to happen next meeting right and they choose to discuss external research, why not.

12:30:18 PM Wilker Aziz: And there's a bit of flexibility there Where were the two to present their own ongoing work, or, or invite others to discuss an external beach that are relevant to us. or.

12:30:33 PM laurent besacier: Since this kind of workshop is only every month. I think that would be useful to have this kind of onetable going over either each partner or each work package.

12:30:48 PM Wilker Aziz: Even if it's very quick like you for some WP, we don't start yet, we can just see it.

12:30:54 PM laurent besacier: And it's going very fast. They think would be worse like having this kind of onetable like process. And I think it would be worth like having this kind of home table like process every month. Every.

12:31:06 PM Wilker Aziz: Well, I like that. They could say we take, they have the meeting for something like that. And then the other half is for one of the partners will say to fill out in a way that is meaningful to the consortium.

12:31:23 PM laurent besacier: I guess your question. Sorry, sorry good no no gone. Jojo question for the devotees, do we go a package of about No, I think it's similar maybe, maybe WPS better, and

12:31:40 PM JosÃ© Souza: I think so because the milestones are related to the WPS right and. Yeah.

12:31:48 PM Wilker Aziz: Yeah, and the wpd there might have already talked to task leader, maybe some, and some discussion already happened behind the scenes between the two consecutive meetings. Sounds good.

12:32:18 PM JosÃ© Souza: Is it is still an idea to go around the table, even though we weren't, you know, person our parents for that. I can say a bit what has been done for the WP seven at least at the desk for the customer services system. I managed to grab some numbers for the so called service level agreements and you know like terms of speed and things like that, and digesting the information and they need to put these in some document, and then I think I'll put this in the week I don't know when when they do so I will share into least.

12:32:57 PM JosÃ© Souza: So, but then I don't know if you use this meeting to discuss or I set up a separate meeting. The thing is that I think everybody should have some input on that and discuss well maybe for the next meeting. I can have everything and we can have more discussion about that. I don't know. And, and then I don't know if if maybe flow Hall you want to meet all my city to talk about the second use case because I have no idea about the kind of SLA is that you need there. The.

12:33:29 PM laurent besacier: Yeah, we can also meet before that show. Yeah. On this aspect. First up seven so we will have no debt at the moment. What I try to do is to, to where I think I would have to hire someone for this, but we have like 12 man months. In total, for these WP so I need to find the best strategy to optimize Somoza. The outcome of this hiring. And at the moment my feeling is that I should maybe hire for the second year in order to really provide something that would be. And to have a strong involvement for the second demonstration at the end of year to. Demonstrate.

12:34:16 PM laurent besacier: And to have a strong involvement for the second demonstration at the end of year two, and basically for the first year try to do something by yourself, which may be a little bit less advanced, but in the meantime the objective for the first demo are not not as strong as it was a second one. So, basically I don't want yes I'm feeding that I should hire someone for the super new and and focus. notice. as strong as a second one. So, basically I don't want yes and feelings that I should hire someone for the souvenir and and focus on this. And before that, probably will do it with the current resources we have.

12:34:49 PM JosÃ© Souza: Yeah, I think we're both, all of you saw when I was in pyramid cheese so they are officially. I mean, part of the project. They, they are going to participate, it goes.

12:35:02 PM Barry Haddow: Hopefully in the research packages as well but also in the WP seven to help with that. So they're both research scientist is in the research team and above them.

12:35:18 PM JosÃ© Souza: Yeah.

12:35:18 PM Wilker Aziz: Welcome.

12:35:19 PM Pedro Martins: And, congrats finger I saw the announcement recently and such a different, because we just defended, especially.

12:35:36 PM Wilker Aziz: And a quick quick thing to say about the 55. So, in a few weeks back. It's mostly been doing some reading or trying to put together some project ideas. Probably the first project will be on the task of quantifying uncertainty. And we're going to try and work on this from a slightly different angle. It's usually just about being able to put a number there and because that on its own is already kind of a challenge. You're going to try to make that number be meaningful to a human so we're going to try to bring ideas from uncertainty estimation and ideas from those talking interpretation methods. See if we can make a line a little bit.

12:36:25 PM Wilker Aziz: This sticks with human intuition, kind of frequency with which models correct now much more to say at this point. Now much.

12:36:38 PM laurent besacier: I can say something about WP three and last it may be about WP too short. So, about WP three as presented as joins a key curves are two options. One is to compress an existing model like whisper. So we are starting to look at whisper.

12:37:01 PM laurent besacier: Use it for speech to text translation from Korea to, to, to English is working very well which is quite slow. So somehow it confirms that some cooperation will be needed if we want to use each file to now use. to. to English is working very well. So now. I've seen on Twitter recently that is possible to use a beat. oncogene goalie for for surveys, so maybe we'll try to, to see the influences fester with it before it will be not fast enough, anyway. So yeah, we are starting to play with whispers as a force of debt. So going to update is about like making multilingual and existing merchant merchant mono model. Sorry about making which language and existing mono lingual speech model.

12:37:54 PM laurent besacier: We have start investigating out to, to be to Machida You bet. So on our side. And about the, those are project I had mentioned, which would be work on which again goes 55. This is probably something that will not stop before January because. So we have a PhD students, as we start. When do so speech to text multimodal models in January. And you might try to work on that machine language speech if a thing as a, as a first project. But definitely, that would be great if this is something that can be done you could ever caught up with a demo. So we'll see we do nothing and nothing yet. Once 55 and definitely not stop before before January and outside.

12:38:44 PM laurent besacier: So we focus more on whisper and material were you about at the moment.

12:38:56 PM Marcely: Okay, I can, I can talk a bit about work package June. Can I share my screen please need permission from the host.

12:39:07 PM Wilker Aziz: It's there now.

12:39:11 PM Marcely: So I made a page for organizing everything that we will do for work package to. So this is the page that you can access if you go with literature at or wiki.

12:39:25 PM Marcely: And then, for instance, we will record all the work package to meetings for generating some internal data. So you can access these here so for instance, we already have the transcription for the first one. And then I also linked the page for the first milestone. We decided. The deadline for this milestone was the 31st of December, which is not very realistic because nobody works the last week of December. So we actually are focusing on having this ready and released it relisted, we had a meeting in which released

12:40:02 PM Marcely: And really relisted we. at how to organize in what you do at this for this milestone, basically we will generate a couple of tables with relevant data sets and key information for these data sets. how to organize in what you do at this for this milestone, basically we will generate a couple of tables with relevant data sets and key information for these data sets. So, basically, we have eight tasks that we are focusing on, and hopefully we like it ideally we would have data in all the six other languages for all these tasks. But this will not happen you already know that for some of them it's not available but then, in this case we will list. What what we are missing.

12:40:43 PM Marcely: And at first I thought about creating these tables at the wiki but this is pretty complicated to edit it's, it's not very user friendly so in the end we will make a different GitHub gets left get something with scripts for processing.

12:41:02 PM Marcely: This data and the tables that we make available for all the partners. So, just to make it clear at, when I presented during the kickoff. I said, the idea was to produce a white paper. and. We will not do this, this anymore because we realized that it wouldn't be very useful. It's better to have something that we can evolve during the projects, and something a bit more easy to access. Since this is an internal milestone for, for the project.

12:41:38 PM Wilker Aziz: Also, I was, was it was I sharing my screen because I follow us.

12:41:44 PM Marcely: Okay, okay.

12:41:46 PM laurent besacier: Am I still sharing it now because the know you just okay.

12:41:50 PM Marcely: Okay, good.

12:41:57 PM Wilker Aziz: All right. You know.

12:41:59 PM Barry Haddow: Sorry I should give some update for WP six which effectively I'm the leader. Well the first update for WP sexes tennis baby was born yesterday.

12:42:11 PM Wilker Aziz: I don't know if Peter Wales heard Bhutan Oh No, we haven't.

12:42:18 PM Barry Haddow: circulated on their group slack. So that's the first deliverable. But, but, um, yeah. So, from what Lauren saying the word WP three and WP six are sort of converging a bit because wp 60 you know the original setup for web three for training WP six for instance, we can't really do any large scale training and last week at the compute grant and even then, we actually do need people to actually you know you need people to actually run this training as well. So, we have not really started working WP six, partly because of sort of personnel problems or lack of personnel we are Lexi and I are hopefully interviewing a bunch of people next week.

12:43:01 PM Barry Haddow: But we are happy, we do have people that, for instance, who is interested in efficient entrance for multimodal models while at least our speech models. Whisper and so on so that's conversation we should have Nick is going on holiday today for I think two to three weeks so

12:43:20 PM laurent besacier: what well you know there's no point having a conversation for a couple of weeks but it's definitely something we should we should we should discuss, maybe later in December, maybe sometime in December or something we should Yeah, maybe sometime in December we might be able to share some some insolence reserved on call into English translation with defense model size and influence time of homes that maybe we could have a discussion on what to do next.

12:43:45 PM Barry Haddow: Yeah. Good, good. I mean it. The other thing which is not multimodal that we're working on is sort of multilingual muscle multilingual training. So I'm wondering whether we should try and that might be part of the models that we've got to deliver some models early next year or another lol quarter one quarter to I can't remember. So that may be a route to getting one that will be text to text so, which does fulfill one of the use cases. And the other use case could be done as a pipeline depending which way we go.

12:44:22 PM Barry Haddow: Initially, yeah. So, yeah, we we have a student is working on them. So it must be multilingual training trying to understand that better.

12:44:39 PM laurent besacier: think so. So, I think, for the Google piece we maybe it makes more sense to have like some meeting to share results in in December, I guess.

12:44:49 PM Barry Haddow: Yeah, Yeah, we don't get anything. Okay.

12:45:08 PM laurent besacier: then. Me.

12:45:09 PM Wilker Aziz: Then he wants to bring anything else up. That's it. Since we have, we have unpopular seeing the call I might do amazing web approach to life and ask you. Amazing. Are there any data sets, you might point me to where I'm looking into you. human disagreement data word level. The say, I know, rather than alternative translations of a sentence, I'm thinking if there's something more word level phrase levels and the more fine grained were outlined.

12:45:51 PM Wilker Aziz: Humans Expressing different opinions on what the translation might be or other tasks assigned to

12:46:00 PM JosÃ© Souza: tasks assigned to that is that is shared as quality submission data that sometimes has more than one position or reference. Yeah, I'm looking at this, okay. Okay, yeah. Yeah. But this is not exactly an annotation right this is more like the reference that is then HDR is ran by that and then get some sort of agreement. This year we annotated the data with mqm for the WMT 22, but not sure we have multiple monitors. But. For every language. I can try to find out you know, actually, have you looked at the GitHub repo of the WT 2022 key shirtless data.

12:46:51 PM JosÃ© Souza: k. If, if there is something it's going to be there with them to annotate annotations,

12:47:00 PM Wilker Aziz: think, maybe maybe have a look if you don't find anything I can continue to see again. Yeah.

12:47:10 PM JosÃ© Souza: But yeah, well I've always a bit difficult because it's super expensive to get that. And usually you don't have many, many sentence pairs as well so I guess this year, the, we had like 500,000 sentence pairs for the monetization. And usually I guess the test sets for wt or like 1000 2000, you know. So it's a trade off, we have much more objective annotations but, and you know exactly what's happening. But you have this cost.

12:47:41 PM Wilker Aziz: And they're related question, anyone has experienced that, you know, data gathering tasks like the human and the taters that I can chat with an offline, in, in, in a different lifetime I use that don't even remember what it was called it was the alternative minutes. In the in.

12:48:02 PM Vlad Niculae: to higher interrupters that was acceptable in Europe or whatever it was the problem and and by the time we could use crowd flower. Yes No way.

12:48:14 PM Wilker Aziz: But if, if anyone has experience with this kind of annotation task searching the map and just had some beans I might have some questions for you can contact you say this call. Say it.

12:48:28 PM Vlad Niculae: My understanding is that for us at the University of Amsterdam, we have to do this with employment contracts, short term employment contracts, mindset what made the difference.

12:48:38 PM Barry Haddow: which may be different for you. Yeah, we've done some of that before. Yeah, and again it was on employment contracts, yeah depends on the local rules are.

12:48:49 PM Alexandra Birch: We've just done an annotation project for multilingual dialogue on two different kind of crowdsourcing websites, one called pros and one called blend. One.

12:49:07 PM laurent besacier: No side will be using something for TGS evaluation. So human evolution called prolific, but I don't know if it's, it can be extended extended for was was was all kind of annotations, but for TTS evolution is quite, quite nice.

12:49:30 PM JosÃ© Souza: But for TTS evolution is quite, quite nice. Now that we don't use here at the bubble because we have our internal community, and use it as much as you can, but I know that some people in the US they use of work. The. But they don't know how easy it is to adapt to the European situation, You know, because of the contracts and stuff.

12:49:59 PM Wilker Aziz: Thanks, basically I was, I was using the last item of the agenda. Other remarks to basically asked. I needed to put them up.

12:50:13 PM Barry Haddow: But if anyone else has other remark. That's a good time to welcome you are asking your first question was about sort of generating different possible translations or uncertainty and yes I was just reminded of that there was a thing called highlighter,

12:50:23 PM Wilker Aziz: Yeah. that. Yeah, yeah, HYT.

12:50:32 PM Barry Haddow: do you remember that. Yeah, yeah. HYT, and I was thought it was better not enterprise but the idea was just generate all possible translations, and then it doesn't matter if your app right, yeah, I made express this is a graph. Yeah, I mean. But to me, that seems a bit sketchy because, like it. But to me, that seems a bit sketchy because, like, I don't have this maybe I'm mischaracterizing obesity must have this concept of I have something is the correct translation or as an incorrect one.

12:50:54 PM Barry Haddow: And I'm not sure if that distinction is actually can be made. I mean when you talk to people about translations they, they'll just argue forever about, you know, simple as a connotation so I'm not sure if you cannot send me those shop distinctions but maybe I'm mischaracterizing the hater but that was the sort of. That was a sort of idea to generate all possible translations.

12:51:17 PM Wilker Aziz: Yeah, the scope is a, an interested in trying to quantify human disagreements a next word prediction, say it's a bit of an unnatural past maybe right we just ask you hate performed his next word prediction task.

12:51:23 PM Wilker Aziz: Human Design.

12:51:35 PM Barry Haddow: It's not super constrained you don't have a full view of the translation but they're just trying to get a sense of how much disagreement we even have at least humans are conditional or unconditional air conditioner condition.

12:51:48 PM Wilker Aziz: But as as if they were performing the task right yeah, it's just maybe forcing the human to perform it from left to right is the little, the little odd, even though we liked it like that perhaps you know we don't think like that and we don't really do. Even though.

12:52:03 PM Barry Haddow: One goes and just looking for maybe some data sets that already more of that code. Yeah, well the translation process research people do did a lot of stuff with eye trackers looking at where, how people actually do translation was the guy Michael Carroll and Copenhagen.

12:52:22 PM Wilker Aziz: Yeah, let's kind of thing yeah and i don't i don't really believe that humans will just scan from left to right and generate the translation like.

12:52:30 PM Barry Haddow: This kind of thing yeah and i don't i don't really believe that humans will just scan from left to right and generate the translation like. But they probably infer some latent variables first right well.

12:52:37 PM Wilker Aziz: Definitely.

12:52:37 PM Barry Haddow: Of course they read Yeah.

12:52:39 PM Wilker Aziz: What else. Thanks. there no other. Nothing else we can just cancer.

12:52:57 PM Vlad Niculae: So it's not the research related but consortium agreement is moving.

12:53:05 PM Barry Haddow: Yeah so so basically our lawyers waiting for for word but from your lawyers what are our lawyers, checking things with us now but I think like us meaning me will promote you and probably cannot answer this.

12:53:19 PM Vlad Niculae: So, this might have to go to the entire consortium again so basically what's happening, maybe Laura has an opinion on this. I guess it might also be relevant for on bubble. So remember how we introduced. Okay, first of all I skip this email. As much as I could to understand all the police. I may be mischaracterizing it, but my understanding is that we introduced a clause to the consortium agreement, written by another lawyer, Tom. Read. This is closed eight point I think five, eight point something.

12:53:55 PM Vlad Niculae: The point of the clause, was to enable any joint, owner of copyrightable materials to license it I think, at any point, I'm not sure exactly of the specific details, but the point was that you don't have to check with your quarters in order to be to use to us. use your code later in a licensed product or something like this which was helpful for for novel. It turns out, if I understand things correctly, that this is not compatible with the requirements from Edinburgh's funding agency. Because they require some sort of advice to double check any licensing or something like this I don't entirely get this. Right.

12:54:42 PM Vlad Niculae: What was in there seems mostly fine, but I think we might have missed the fact that novelists clause in the, in the version that was circulated did not apply to Edinburgh and now in the new revision, it is made explicit that this clause does not apply to Edinburgh associate partner. But this was the case before as well. I just never realized. There is a. So, Edinburgh is bound by a specific subset of clauses that that are specified as a list, so it. So it's not, it's not specified what you're not subject about what you are subject to and 8.2 I think was not among that list.

12:55:30 PM Vlad Niculae: In the version that we, I think are ready to circulate, perhaps, There is a paragraph in there. That, that is very clear about how this should go with an emperor. And it says that in the case of Edinburgh, you cannot do any licensing and so on without giving them a 45 day period to to report it and check with their funding agency.

12:55:58 PM laurent besacier: But so close to applies to those partners that clause, still applies to everybody else yes so this exception is just for any project that Edinburgh is also on. I guess that you do moment. Yeah, you could you could circulate it as it is at the moment. I will see Trump's reaction.

12:56:18 PM Vlad Niculae: And I think it will be okay if it applies to about acceptable because there is nothing we can do with the doubles, with UK is policy anyway right there.

12:56:29 PM laurent besacier: I think that's the point. Yeah, yeah, I mean the only thing that we might be able to do is there's some misunderstanding about this, but there might I don't think there is, I think, I think Carol, because this seems quite clear quite specifically written

12:56:43 PM Vlad Niculae: to me, it says jointly owned intellectual property are trying to results are not suitable for the associate partner. Any transfer of ownership or exclusive licensing have jointly on intellectual property rights or jointly owned results shall be subject Shelby sub. to the Associated park or heading 45 days notice to contact its founder, and the granting of such transfer exclusive license is subject to any objections that may be raised by its funder. So, yeah, I think what we have to do is in on any, like, if this is acceptable to the companies. I hope it is because otherwise it will be a lot harder to move forward with a consortium agreement.

12:57:24 PM Vlad Niculae: And if it is, we can have an informal agreement that everything that has embrace on receives a BSD license or something like this, which I think was the plan.

12:57:35 PM Vlad Niculae: Anyway, I cannot speak for you of course but I think that's kind of how most of us, operate.

12:57:41 PM laurent besacier: A lot of course would be nicer to have it down but we cannot. Okay, so the next step is that dislike new paragraph reserved a to vote Ada who is going to be shared among older years.

12:57:52 PM Vlad Niculae: I believe that's the next step so currently I have it in my inbox and like we were asked for feedback but I don't know what feedback we can give to our lawyer so I guess we can just ask him. Should we just circulated. Yes, yes. I want circulated on till he says something but I think that's the next step I think we circulated and we try to have it signed. That was that was the update. As far as I understand it from here also the cat just added some characters so the consortium agreement. I hope you didn't hit save.

12:58:25 PM laurent besacier: And just one thing it circulates maybe just like two lines, explaining the cortex and what has changed would be useful for were on at least on our sites are lawyers handling many different.

12:58:38 PM Vlad Niculae: Just one thing, if it circulates maybe just like two lines, explaining the context and what has changed would be useful for at least on our sides are lawyers handling many different question I understand, so and then she didn't document context here. The document I have it's actually interact changes mode. So if we circulate this one it should be pretty clear but yeah we can we can add some some more comments from from Carol I think maybe,

12:59:06 PM Maria Ana Henriques: I don't know if, if I can say anything in particular just sounds like it's likely to be acceptable or not, at this point, I think so, yeah, but we will share it with our life as well. And what law has just asked, I think it would be great, you know, to give him some context of what changed. to.

12:59:26 PM Vlad Niculae: Thanks, but I don't see these as becoming a problem. No.

12:59:36 PM Wilker Aziz: Excellent. Right on time awesome RCU well probably some of us are going to meet earlier because of the ongoing proposal for the HPC grant. Other than that, probably see you next monday. Thank you. Bye.
